The THUMOS Challenge on Action Recognition for
Videos “in the Wild”$
Haroon Idreesa,∗, Amir R. Zamirb, Yu-Gang Jiangc, Alex Gorbane, Ivan Laptevd,
Rahul Sukthankare, Mubarak Shaha
aCenter for Research in Computer Vision, University of Central Florida, Orlando, USA
bDept. of Computer Science, Stanford University, USA
cSchool of Computer Science, Fudan University, Shanghai, China
dINRIA Paris - Rocquencourt, France
eGoogle Research, USA
Abstract
Automatically recognizing and localizing wide ranges of human actions has crucial
importance for video understanding. Towards this goal, the THUMOS challenge was
introduced in 2013 to serve as a benchmark for action recognition. Until then, video
action recognition, including THUMOS challenge, had focused primarily on the clas-
siﬁcation of pre-segmented (i.e., trimmed) videos, which is an artiﬁcial task. In THU-
MOS 2014, we elevated action recognition to a more practical level by introducing
temporally untrimmed videos. These also include ‘background videos’ which share
similar scenes and backgrounds as action videos, but are devoid of the speciﬁc actions.
The three editions of the challenge organized in 2013–2015 have made THUMOS a
common benchmark for action classiﬁcation and detection and the annual challenge is
widely attended by teams from around the world.
In this paper we describe the THUMOS benchmark in detail and give an overview
of data collection and annotation procedures. We present the evaluation protocols used
to quantify results in the two THUMOS tasks of action classiﬁcation and temporal
detection. We also present results of submissions to the THUMOS 2015 challenge
and review the participating approaches. Additionally, we include a comprehensive
empirical study evaluating the differences in action recognition between trimmed and
$www.thumos.info
∗Corresponding author
Email address: haroon@cs.ucf.edu (Haroon Idrees)
Preprint submitted to Computer Vision and Image Understanding April 22, 2016
arXiv:1604.06182v1  [cs.CV]  21 Apr 2016
untrimmed videos, and how well methods trained on trimmed videos generalize to
untrimmed videos. We conclude by proposing several directions and improvements for
future THUMOS challenges.
Keywords: Action Recognition, Action Detection, Action Localization, Untrimmed
Videos, THUMOS, Dataset, Benchmark, UCF101
1. Introduction
The action recognition community has made great progress in the last few years,
driven in large part by the release of large video datasets such as UCF101 [1] and
HMDB [2] in conjunction with the development of new features [3], representations [4]
and learning methods [5]. Recent datasets contain challenging videos with actions from
various sources such as movies [2, 6], YouTube [7], and wearable cameras [8, 9]. The
performance of methods evaluated on such datasets has steadily increased over the
years [3]. In line with these advances in action recognition, the THUMOS challenge
was introduced to the computer vision community in 2013 with the aim to explore
and evaluate new approaches for large-scale action analysis from Internet videos in a
realistic setting.
The THUMOS 2013 challenge was based on the UCF101 dataset [1], which similar
to most of the commonly evaluated action recognition datasets consists exclusively of
manually trimmed video clips that exclude temporal clutter. The assumption of such
clean and trimmed videos may be reasonable during training time since it provides
methods with strongly supervised data. However, the same restriction during testing is
potentially impractical and unreasonable for several reasons:
• it assumes an (unrealistic) external process to temporally segment videos into
clips that precisely surround the desired action;
• it creates a test set distribution that does not match the real-world distribution
since the test data is free from temporal clutter, ‘background’ class data notwith-
standing;
2
• it can allow methods to inadvertently exploit side-information, such as the length
of the test video clip [10], even though this information is available only due to
an artifact of the evaluation methodology.
Thus, the temporally segmented clips do not reﬂect the real world as the actions are
typically embedded in complex dynamic scenes with rich causal and spatial relations
among people and objects. While elimination of temporal clutter simpliﬁes the recog-
nition problem, it becomes difﬁcult to predict the performance of different methods in
real applications. In literature, there have been some efforts to address the problem
of action recognition in untrimmed videos. For example, temporal detection has been
studied in [11, 12, 13, 14], while spatiotemporal localization of actions has been ad-
dressed in [15, 16, 17, 18]. Such works deal with substantial amount of temporal clutter
from movies and sports videos. However, they typically were evaluated on only a small
number of action classes and required strongly supervised training and test sets. The
THUMOS’14 challenge [19] introduced thousands of untrimmed videos in validation,
background and test sets for 101 action classes providing the community with the ﬁrst-
of-its-kind dataset for action recognition and temporal detection in realistic settings
with a standardized evaluation protocol. Similarly, THUMOS’15 challenge [20] ex-
tended the THUMOS’14 dataset by including a new test set constituting 5,613 positive
and background untrimmed videos.
THUMOS (Greek: θυµ´oζ) which means a spirited contest, consists of two princi-
pal challenges: classiﬁcation - where the goal is to determine whether a video contains
a particular action or not, and temporal detection - where the goal is to classify an
action ﬁnd its temporal locations in each video. The THUMOS action classes are
from UCF101 [1] and can be divided into ﬁve main categories: Human-Object Inter-
action, Body-Motion Only, Human-Human Interaction, Playing Musical Instruments,
and Sports. All the videos are publicly available from YouTube 1, and manually anno-
tated both for action label and temporal span of each action.
The objectives of the THUMOS challenge are twofold: a) to serve as a benchmark
1http://www.youtube.com/
3
and enable a comparison of different approaches on the tasks of action classiﬁcation
and temporal detection in large-scale realistic video settings; and b) to advance the state
of the art. For instance, the accuracy on UCF101 increased from 45% in 2012 to almost
90% at THUMOS’13 [21]. Similarly, the 2014 and 2015 challenges are characterized
by three signiﬁcant differences compared to traditional action recognition. The ﬁrst is
the introduction of background videos that share similar scenes and objects as positive
videos but do not contain the target actions. This downplays the role of appearance
and static information since background videos are distinguishable from action videos
primarily based on the motion. Associated with this is the second difference where the
classiﬁcation task is changed from a forced-choice multi-class formulation to a multi-
label binary task, where each video can contain multiple actions. This has been enabled
through the use of background videos and is not possible with other action datasets.
And third is the introduction of untrimmed videos (Figure 1) for validation and testing
as opposed to manually pre-segmented (or “trimmed”) videos [22, 23, 24, 2, 1, 7]
typically used in action recognition. Consequently, a testing video in THUMOS’15
can contain zero, one or multiple instances of an action (or different actions) that can
occur anywhere in the given video.
One of the contributions of this paper is to extend and complement prior work with
a study of action recognition in temporally untrimmed videos and show how it differs
from trimmed videos using the THUMOS dataset (see Fig. 1). We address both video-
level action classiﬁcation and temporal detection problems and systematically evaluate
and quantify the effect of temporal clutter. In particular, we evaluate the popular Im-
proved Dense Trajectory Features (IDTF) [3] + Fisher Vectors + SVM pipeline that
has dominated several action recognition benchmarks. While temporal clutter causes
a drop in recognition performance, untrimmed videos also contain additional informa-
tion about the context of actions. In the evaluation study, we explore action context
and show improvements in action recognition performance using context information
extracted from temporal neighborhoods of untrimmed videos.
The rest of the paper is organized as follows. We provide comparison with existing
datasets in Sec. 2 and deﬁne challenge tasks in Sec. 3. Next, we explain the procedure
used for collection and annotation of the dataset in Sec. 4, and present the evaluation
4
Time2:49
0:00
THUMOS
(trimmed)
0:00 Time0:03
UCF 101
(untrimmed)
Figure 1: Illustration contrasting a (trimmed) video clip for the ‘BaseballPitch’ action from the UCF101
dataset and anuntrimmed video from the corresponding action taken from the validation set of THUMOS’15.
Note that the entire temporal span of the video (shown in red) contains a variety of baseball actions with the
pitch occurring multiple times (shown in blue).
protocol in Sec. 5. Since the challenge in still nascent, a longitudinal study of partici-
pants’ methods would be possible after the next few years. Nonetheless, we perform a
cross-sectional study of the THUMOS’15 challenge with a summary of methods pre-
sented in Sec. 6 and results reported in Sec. 7. Additionally, we study the impact of
background and temporal clutter, as well as role of context for action recognition in
untrimmed videos in Sec. 8. Finally, we conclude with ideas on improvements for
future challenges in Sec. 9.
2. Related Datasets
Early datasets on action recognition in video, such asKTH [22] and Weizmann [23],
employed actors performing a small set of scripted actions under controlled conditions.
The next series of datasets, such as CMU [25] and MSR Actions [26], introduced
5
scripted actions performed against challenging dynamic backgrounds. Later datasets,
such as HOHA [27] and Hollywood-2 [6] moved to relatively more realistic video
footage from Hollywood movies and broadcast television channels, respectively. Many
of these datasets provided spatiotemporal annotations for action instances in relatively
short untrimmed videos. However, this level of annotation became impractical once
the research community demanded larger datasets. Most of the modern datasets are
collected from realistic sources, have more classes and have more temporal clutter. For
instance, the Human Motion DataBase (HMDB)[2] dataset released in 2011 contains
51 action categories, each containing at least 101 samples for a total ∼6800 action in-
stances.
The UCF Sports [24] dataset from 2009 comprised of movie clips captured by
professional ﬁlming crew, and similar to many existing datasets at the time, it offered
videos with camera motion and dynamic backgrounds. The next in the series were
UCF11 [7] and UCF50 [28], released in 2009 and 2011, respectively. Both datasets
consisted of trimmed clips from a variety of sources ranging from digitized movies
to YouTube. The UCF101 dataset [1] is a superset of the previous UCF11 [7] and
UCF50 [28] datasets and was released in 2012. It contains 13320 video clips of 101
action classes (Appendix A). The actions are divided into 5 categories: Human-Object
Interaction, Body-Motion Only, Human-Human Interaction, Playing Musical Instru-
ments, Sports, as shown in Figure 2. The clips of one action class are divided into 25
groups which contain 4–7 clips each. The clips in one group share some common fea-
tures, such as the background or actors. The videos have a resolution of 320×240, with
∼27hrs in total. The training data of the THUMOS challenge uses the trimmed clips
of UCF101, however, the datasets for THUMOS’14 and THUMOS’15 additionally
include untrimmed positive and background videos for validation and test sets.
The Sports-1M [29] dataset, released in 2014, contains more than 1 million untrimmed
videos from almost 487 classes with about 1000–3000 videos per action class. The
dataset is divided into the following categories: Aquatic Sports, Team Sports, Win-
ter Sports, Ball Sports, Combat Sports, Sports with Animals, and taxonomy becomes
ﬁne-grained at the lower levels. While the dataset is large in the number of videos, it
focuses only on sports actions and is weakly annotated (only at the video level) with au-
6
Hula Hoop 
 Juggling Balls 
 Jump Rope 
Skate Boarding 
Pizza Tossing 
Nun Chucks 
Mixing Batter 
Yo Yo 
Apply Eye Makeup 
 Blow Dry Hair 
Apply Lipstick 
 Cutting In Kitchen 
 Hammering 
Knitting 
 Mopping Floor 
 Shaving Beard 
Writing On Board 
Typing 
Brushing Teeth 
Soccer Juggling 
Walking with a Dog 
Swing 
Rope Climbing 
Push ups 
 Trampoline Jumping 
Tai Chi 
Rock Climbing Indoor 
Jumping Jack 
 Lunges 
Pull ups 
Blowing Candles 
 Body Weight Squats 
 Handstand Pushups 
 Handstand Walking 
Wall Pushups 
Baby Crawling 
Military Parade 
 Salsa Spin 
Band Marching 
 Haircut 
 Head Massage 
Playing Tabla 
Playing Piano 
Playing Guitar 
Drumming 
Playing Violin 
Playing Cello 
 Playing Daf 
 Playing Dhol 
Playing Flute 
 Playing Sitar 
Bench Press 
Basketball 
Baseball Pitch 
Billiard 
 Breaststroke 
Clean and Jerk 
 Diving 
 Fencing 
Golf Swing 
Rowing 
Punch 
Pommel Horse 
Pole Vault 
Kayaking 
Javelin Throw 
Horse Riding 
Horse Race 
High Jump 
Skiing 
Jetski 
 Tennis Swing 
 Throw Discus 
Volleyball Spiking 
Archery 
 Balance Beam 
Basketball Dunk 
 Bowling 
Front Crawl 
Frisbee Catch 
Floor Gymnastics 
Field Hockey Penalty 
Cricket Shot 
Cricket Bowling 
Cliff Diving 
Boxing-Speed Bag 
Boxing-Punching Bag 
Hammer Throw 
 Ice Dancing 
Long Jump 
 Parallel Bars 
 Rafting 
 Shotput 
Sky Diving 
 Soccer Penalty 
 Still Rings 
Biking 
Uneven Bars 
Table Tennis Shot 
Surfing 
Sumo Wrestling 
Figure 2: The ﬁgure shows the sample frames of the actions from UCF101 dataset [1]. The color of frame
borders speciﬁes the action type to which they belong: Human-Object Interaction, Body-Motion Only,
Human-Human Interaction, Playing Musical Instruments, Sports (c.f. Appendix A).
7
tomatically generated – and thus potentially noisy – labels. By contrast, the THUMOS
dataset includes videos that have been carefully annotated. Furthermore, THUMOS
includes negative background videos for each action class in both the validation and
test sets, making the action recognition task more difﬁcult.
“TREC2 Video Retrieval Evaluation” (TRECVID) is a series of competitions and
workshops conducted by National Institute of Standards and Technology (NIST) with
the aim to stimulate research in automatic segmentation, indexing, and content-based
retrieval of digital video. Since the ﬁrst competition in 2003, it now consists of several
independent tasks. The dataset for each task has been typically extended each year,
and is only available to the participants who register for the competition. There are
two set of tasks in TRECVID that are related to THUMOS challenge. One of the task
is Semantic Indexing (SIN) and the associated Localization (LOC) which focus on the
detection and localization in video shots or clips. The dataset consists of Internet
Archive Creative Commons (IACC)collected by NIST with 15300 videos for a total
of ∼1200 hours. Only short clips or shots are annotated for 500 object, scene and action
concepts for training. During testing, the highest scoring shots from all participants
are gathered, and used for generating ground truth. Since only a subset of test data
is annotated, inferred Average Precision is used for evaluation (infAP) [30] of each
concept. For 2015, only 30 concepts were evaluated for detection and 10 for spatio-
temporal localization. It is important to remember that unlike untrimmed videos in
THUMOS, the spatio-temporal localization in SIN task is performed on pre-deﬁned
trimmed shots.
Another task Multimedia Event Detection requires the methods to provide a conﬁ-
dence score for each video from a collection as to whether the video contains the event.
The collection is complemented with event kits that include a textual description of the
event and information about related concepts that are likely to occur in each event. An
associated task Multimedia Event Recounting has the objective of stating key evidence,
in the form of text with pointers to detected concepts, that led a Multimedia Event
Detection (MED) method to decide that a multimedia clip contains an instance of a
2TREC stands for “Text REtrieval Conference”
8
speciﬁc event. There were 20 pre-speciﬁed events for the main task, and Mean Aver-
age Precision and inferred MAP used as metrics for event detection. The evaluation for
recounting is performed after results are returned by participants where judges evalu-
ate the key evidences for correctness. The dataset consists of Heterogeneous Audio
Visual Internet (HA VIC)Corpus collected by the Linguistic Data Consortium. For
40 events, it has ∼290 hrs of training videos. The testing is performed on a separate
set with 200,000 videos ( ∼8000 hrs). THUMOS challenge focuses on actions, which
are less complex and more atomic than events, and are primarily affected by motion of
actors. Furthermore, the action concepts in the Multimedia Event Recounting task are
primarily driven by events rather than the actions themselves. Thus, miss-detections of
actions are not penalized in evaluation as long as the evidence presented by a system is
sufﬁcient for detection of an event.
ActivityNet is a recent dataset for recognition of human activities. It was released
in 2015, two years after THUMOS, and consists of 203 activity classes with an average
of 137 untrimmed videos per class. The classes are linked through a taxonomy con-
sisting of parent-child relationships. Different from ActivityNet, THUMOS contains
a large number of background videos making the problem of action recognition more
realistic. For training the classiﬁers, the negative videos not only come from positive
samples of other actions but the background videos associated with an action as well.
Thus, it becomes crucial for the classiﬁer and detector to accurately model the motion
since similarity in scene in action and background videos signiﬁcantly reduces the util-
ity of appearance features. The background videos in THUMOS also aid in studying
and quantifying the role of stationary and non-action context for action recognition
(Sec. 8).
3. The THUMOS Challenge Tasks
This section gives an overview of the THUMOSclassiﬁcation and temporal detec-
tion tasks. We also describe their evolution since the ﬁrst THUMOS held in 2013.
9
3.1. Classiﬁcation
The task of action classiﬁcation consists of predicting (for each video) the presence
or absence of each of the 101 action classes from the UCF101 dataset. This is a binary
classiﬁcation task per action, as the actions are not mutually exclusive — a given action
may occur once, multiple times or never in a testing video. This is in contrast to the
typical forced-choice multi-class task whose goal is to assign a class label to a given
video from a set of pre-deﬁned classes. For the classiﬁcation task, the participants are
expected to provide real-valued conﬁdences for each test video for all the 101 actions.
A low conﬁdence for a particular action means either the video contains some other
action or none of the 101 actions. The participants are required to report results on all
the videos, and omitting videos from evaluation results in lower performance.
The classiﬁcation task of the 2013 challenge only consisted of videos from UCF101.
The dataset was divided into three pre-deﬁned splits and participants reported results
using three-fold cross-validation, i.e., training on two folds and testing on the third.
However, since 2014 the dataset has been extended with untrimmed validation, back-
ground and test videos. The participants can only use UCF101, validation and back-
ground sets to train, validate and ﬁne-tune their models and then report results on the
withheld test set. Participants are not permitted to perform any manual annotation at
their end.
3.2. Temporal Detection
For the temporal detection task participants are expected to provide temporal inter-
vals and corresponding conﬁdence values for all detected instances of 20 pre-selected
action classes. The task of classiﬁcation is embedded within the temporal detection
which makes it comparatively more difﬁcult. For example, an instance of an action
that is correctly localized in time but is assigned with an incorrect class label will be
treated as an incorrect detection. For this task, participants are required to report re-
sults for 20 action classes in all the test videos. For the detection tasks, similar to
classiﬁcation, participants are not permitted to perform additional manual annotations.
The ﬁrst THUMOS challenge in 2013 had spatio-temporal localization for 24 ac-
tion categories instead of temporal detection. The spatio-temporal annotations for 24
10
actions were provided in the trimmed videos of UCF101. The temporal detection re-
sembles spatio-temporal localization with the difference that the spatial location of the
detections is not incorporated in the evaluation. Besides the signiﬁcant reduction in an-
notation effort, adopting temporal detection over spatio-temporal localization in later
years of the THUMOS challenge was driven by two factors. First, temporal detection
is computationally more tractable, particularly in long untrimmed videos. Second, in
many practical scenarios, the temporal aspect is more important than the spatial, e.g., a
user may want to seek directly to the portion of the video that includes the given action
and may not beneﬁt from a bounding box localizing the action within each frame. For
these reasons, the 2014 and 2015 challenges only included a temporal detection task,
with both the training and test set containing temporal annotations in untrimmed videos
for the 20 actions.
4. The THUMOS Dataset
This section provides an overview of the data collection and annotation procedures.
In addition, we also provide various statistics related to the THUMOS’15 dataset.
4.1. Video Collection Procedure
The Internet videos for the THUMOS competitions were drawn from public videos
on YouTube, which made it possible to ﬁnd a large number of videos for any given
topic — but a large fraction of videos may not contain visible instances of the desired
action. We employed a series of manual ﬁltering stages to ensure the set of videos for
each action contains only the relevant videos.
Positive Videos: The YouTube Data API3 allows video search through Freebase 4
topics. Every YouTube video has several Freebase topics associated with it that are as-
signed based on annotations provided by the video creator, as well based on some high
level video features. We deﬁned a set of Freebase topics corresponding to the action
3https://developers.google.com/youtube/v3/
4https://developers.google.com/youtube/v3/guides/searching_by_topic
11
labels. However, a Freebase topic which ideally corresponds to an action either returns
too few videos or is too general to be useful. Therefore, we manually augmented topic
ids with a set of search keywords. Keywords combined with Freebase topics yielded a
reasonable set of potential videos for each action.
An issue with YouTube videos in context of our task is that highly rated or fre-
quently viewed videos may include “viral” videos or compilations, so we had to ex-
clude these by explicitly blacklisting keywords “-awesome”, “-crazy”, “-compilation”,
etc. Furthermore, as the dataset is extended each year by collecting new videos, we ex-
clude all YouTube videos and channels whose videos were used in previous THUMOS
competitions to avoid adding videos that might be similar to those from previous years.
Background Videos: Collecting useful background videos is more involved than
searching for positive videos. Simply adding videos from unrelated categories does
not help since such videos are visually dissimilar to those in the positive set. The best
background videos are those that share the context of a given action (i.e., include sim-
ilar scenes, actors and objects) without actually showing instances of the given action
being performed. For instance, for the ‘PlayingPiano’ class, a video showing a piano
in which the piano is not being played is a valid background video. It is also important
that background videos for one action class do not contain positive instances of other
actions. Therefore, for this task we grouped all action types into super classes. Sev-
eral actions occur in similar settings: e.g., ‘BalanceBeam’, ‘FloorGymnastics’, ‘Par-
allelBars’, etc. are all likely to occur indoors in Olympic gymnastic venues; whereas
‘HammerThrow’, ‘HighJump’, ‘HighJump’, etc., occur outdoors in track and ﬁeld are-
nas. To ﬁnd such videos, we supplemented the search with the following queries which
resulted in background videos without any instance of that action:
• X + ‘for sale’: for actions that involve an instrument, e.g., piano for sale (‘Play-
ingPiano’), yoyo for sale (‘YoYo’).
• X + venue : for actions that involve a particular location or venue, e.g. base-
ball stadium or Coors Field (‘BaseballPitch’), climbing tower (‘RockClimbing’),
bathroom (‘BrushingTeeth’).
12
• Co-occurring events: for sports related actions, e.g., cheer leading or dance,
e.g., waist twirling dance -hoop -contra (‘HulaHoop’).
• X + brands : for actions involving branded objects e.g., L’oreal eye makeup
(‘ApplyEyeMakeup’).
• X + ‘drill’ or ‘workout’: for some sports actions, e.g., shotput drill (‘ShotPut’).
• X + ‘review’ or ‘how to choose’ : for products, e.g., lipstick overview (‘Ap-
plyLipstick’).
• General Freebase topics: excluding class names e.g., circus gymnastics (‘Still-
Rings’), computer (‘Typing’), macram´e (‘Knitting’).
• Object names: for actions involving object e.g., ‘piano -playing’ (‘PlayingPi-
ano’), bat (‘CricketShot’).
• Different object / action combination: mechanical bull ride (‘PommelHorse’),
Invisible drum (‘PlayingTabla’), running with dog (‘WalkingDog’), yoga stand-
ing pose (‘Lunges’).
The video collection procedure builds lists of putative positive and background
videos for each action class. The YouTube id, channel id, and title of each video are
saved in the list. Next, the videos go through an annotation stage, followed by down-
loading and ﬁnal veriﬁcation.
4.2. Annotation and Veriﬁcation Procedure
The video collection procedure provides a set of potential positive and background
videos for each of the 101 action classes. For positive videos, the annotators were asked
to ﬁrst go through the videos of a particular action class in UCF101, and then annotate
the videos from the list as either positive or irrelevant. The videos for a particular
action were presented to the annotator in a batch of four (for User Interface efﬁciency
reasons), which were played simultaneously from YouTube. As soon as the annotator
found a positive and valid instance of the action class being annotated, s/he marked it
as positive. A video may contain an instance of an action, but was marked asirrelevant
if it satisﬁed any of the following criteria:
13
• Slow Motion: The video contains action that has been performed in slow motion
or in an unrealistic way, and looks different from the instances of an action class
in UCF101 dataset.
• Sped Up: The action is being performed faster than usual.
• Occlusions / Partial Visibility : There is text or any other object signiﬁcantly
occluding the actor.
• Motion Blur: Video is blurry or camera is shaking to the extent that the action
cannot be seen properly.
• Clutter / Incorrect Background: Action is performed in an environment where
it is partially visible e.g., a ‘GolfSwing’ action recorded from a camera directly
behind the audience, therefore they are blocking the ﬁeld-of-view, or if it has an
atypical backdrop, e.g., somebody performing ‘PushUps’ on the moon.
• Unrealistic Instances: The action does not seem realistic. For example, an in-
structional video on how to perform a ‘PushUp’ might have a person performing
the action much slower than usual. The person might also stop half-way while
performing the action to explain, or performs an action in an unusual way, not
seen in the UCF101 dataset.
• Animation: Any animated examples of the action of interest, e.g. a character
from a video game performing the action or from a cartoon, etc.
• Fake Action: The action does not seem realistic or is poorly performed.
• Long Video: Video is longer than 10 minutes.
• Compilation: Video is compiled using multiple videos.
• Slide Show of Images: The video contains a slide show of images, but no video
of the action of interest.
• First Person Video: The video is recorded from an egocentric perspective by the
same person who is performing the action i.e. actions viewed from a wearable
camera.
• Not Related: The video neither contains any instance of the action of interest
nor the background for that action.
14
The positive videos are also annotated with secondary actions, ones which occur or
co-occur with the primary action in a video. Some of the actions are subset of others,
for instance, ‘BasketballDunk’ implies ‘Basketball’, ‘HorseRace’ implies ‘HorseRid-
ing’, and ‘CliffDiving’ implies ‘Diving’. Similarly, there are several actions that are
usually proximal in time, such as ‘CricketBowling’ and ‘CricketShot’, as well as videos
involving playing of musical instruments that can have multiple secondary actions.
In contrast to positive videos, the task of annotating background videos is somewhat
more difﬁcult as each background should not contain instances of any of the 101 ac-
tion classes. To achieve this, each annotator was asked to review at most 34 actions
at a time, and ensure none of those occurred in the background video being annotated.
Thus, each background video was annotated by three different annotators for three dis-
tinct subsets of 101 action classes. Once the annotation is ﬁnished for positive and
background videos, all of them are veriﬁed by a different set of annotators both for
consistency and accuracy.
4.3. Temporal Annotations
Action boundaries (unlike objects) are generally vague and subjective. This makes
the evaluation less concrete as human experts deﬁne the action boundaries differently
from each other. The same is true for different methods whose output can vary among
each other. However, we observed that the 101 action classes can be divided into
two categories: the instantaneous actions which have short time span and can be well-
localized in time e.g., ‘BasketballDunk’, ‘GolfSwing’; andcyclic actions that are repet-
itive in nature, e.g. ‘Biking’, ‘HairCut’, ‘PlayingGuitar’. To select the action classes for
the temporal detection task, we handpicked the instantaneous ones 5 with well-deﬁned
temporal boundaries (c.f. Appendix A).
Besides only focusing on instantaneous actions for the temporal detection, we also
take additional measures to ensure that evaluation for this task is objective. First, we
5 BaseballPitch (07), BasketballDunk (09), Billiards (12), CleanAndJerk (21), CliffDiving (22), Crick-
etBowling (23), CricketShot (24), Diving (26), FrisbeeCatch (31), GolfSwing (33), HammerThrow (36),
HighJump (40), JavelinThrow (45), LongJump (51), PoleVault (68), Shotput (79), SoccerPenalty (85), Ten-
nisSwing (92), ThrowDiscus (93), V olleyballSpiking (97).
15
annotated action intervals consistently with the temporal segmentation of correspond-
ing actions in the UCF101 dataset. Second, we also marked some action instances as
ambiguous in cases of partial visibility, incomplete execution or strong deviation in the
style. Third, we use a liberal Intersection-Over-Union threshold (small, 10%) to quan-
tify the performance on this task, since actual actions are only a small fraction of the
entire videos. Lastly, we ensured that evaluation at multiple IOU thresholds keeps the
rankings unaffected.
For the 20 instantaneous actions selected for the task of temporal detection, we
annotated their temporal boundaries in untrimmed videos. Each instance of these action
classes is annotated with the start and end time in all videos in the Validation and Test
sets. The labels include any of the 20 actions or ‘ambiguous’. To ensure consistency,
the annotation has been made by one annotator in two passes over the data, and then
veriﬁed by another annotator. The annotation has been performed using the Viper 6
tool. Action annotation for a few example videos is illustrated in Figure 3. In these and
other examples each video typically contains instances of one action category only.
Exceptions include ‘CricketBowling’ and ‘CricketShot’ actions which often co-occur
within the same video.
4.4. Attributes
Besides the video and clip level annotations provided with the THUMOS dataset,
we also provided semantic relationships between the 101 action classes and several
attributes. Each action class is associated with one or more of these attributes, as sum-
marized in Table 1. Although video-level annotations for the attributes are not pro-
vided, such semantic knowledge can be incorporated while training and testing action
categories.
4.5. Dataset Statistics
We summarize the statistics of THUMOS’15 benchmark dataset below:
6http://viper-toolkit.sourceforge.net/products/gt/
16
BaseballPitch
CliffDiving
HammerThrow
SoccerPenalty
TennisSwing
BasketballDunk
GolfSwing
LongJump
Shotput
ThrowDiscus
Figure 3: Illustration of temporal annotation (shown in blue) for eight video samples from the Validation set
of THUMOS’15 dataset.
• Validation set: 2,104 untrimmed videos with temporal annotations of actions.
This set contains on average 20 videos for each of the 101 classes found in the
UCF101 dataset.
• Background set: 2,980 relevant videos that are guaranteed not to contain any
instances of the 101 actions.
• Test set: 5,613 untrimmed videos with temporal annotations for 20 classes.
The THUMOS’15, which is an extension of THUMOS’14 dataset, was designed to
provide a realistic action recognition scenario. Unlike UCF101 [1], the videos in the
set were not temporally segmented to contain only the actions of interest. Therefore, in
most of the videos the action only takes a small percentage of time when compared to
the length of the video in which it occurs (see Fig. 4) (the only notable exceptions are
videos of cyclic actions). The use of variable length videos, each containing different
numbers of actions of different lengths makes it less likely that a system could inad-
vertently exploit side-information [10], such as action length during the classiﬁcation
task. The mean clip length for UCF101 is 7.21 seconds, which is about 80% more than
the average action length in the THUMOS’15 dataset.
17
Body Motion Body Parts Visible Object Indoor
Flipping Head Closeup Ball Like Pool
Walking Face Closeup Big Ball Like Office
Running Upper Body Stick Like Court
Riding Lower Body Rope Like Gym
Up down Full Body Sharp Home
Pulling One Hand Circular Track
Lifting Two Hands Cylinderical
Pushing One Musical Instrument Outdoor
Diving Two Portable Musical ... Grass
Jumping Up Many ...Instrument Water
Jumping Forward Animal Ocean/Lake
Jumping Over ... Body Parts Used Boat Like Court
...Obstacle Head Sky
Spinning Hands Posture Street/Road
Climbing Up Arms Sitting Track
Horizontal Legs Sitting In Front Of…
Vertical Up Foot … Table Like Object
Vertical Down Standing
Bending Lying
Handstand
One Arm Motion Two Arms Bent Legs Open To The Side Facing Down
Two Arms Motion One Arm Stretched One Leg Bent Facing Up
Synchronized Arm Motion Two Arms Stretched Two Legs Bent Facing Front
Alternate Arm Motion One Arm Swinging One Leg Stretched Facing Sideways
One Arm Raised Over Head Two Arms Swinging Two Legs Stretched Straight Position
Two Arms Raised Over Head Synchronized Leg Motion Throw Release Motion Tilted Position
One Arm Raised Chest Level Alternate Leg Motion Synchronized Hand Motion Down Forward Motion
Two Arms Raised Chest Level Fold Unfold Motion One Hand Closed Twist Motion
One Arm Open To The Side Up Down Motion Two Hands Closed Bent Position
Two Arms Open To The Side Up Forward Motion One Hand Grab Straight Up Position
One Arm Down Side Stretch Motion Two Hands Grab Touching Ground
Two Arms Down One Leg Raise One Hand Open In Air
One Arm Bent Two Legs Raise Two Hands Open
Body Part Articulation-Arm
Table 1: Attributes for the 101 action classes.
Statistics of the temporal annotation for the 20 action classes in the Validation set is
presented in Table 2. As can be seen, the average length of such actions is∼4.6 seconds
while their temporal intervals occupy ∼28% of corresponding videos. The relatively
large number of action instances and the low ratio of action length indicate the difﬁculty
of the THUMOS temporal detection task.
5. Submission and Evaluation
5.1. Action Recognition
For action recognition, each system is expected to output a real-valued score indi-
cating the conﬁdence of the predicted presence in a video. Due to the untrimmed nature
18
Duration (Sec)
0 50 100 150 200 250
Number of Videos
0
20
40
60
Duration (Sec)
0 50 100 150 200 250
Number of Videos
0
20
40
60
Duration (Sec)
0 50 100 150 200 250
Number of Videos
0
20
40
60
(a)
(b)
(c)
Figure 4: Histogram of video lengths in THUMOS’15 (a) Background, (b) Validation and (c) Test set,
respectively. We excluded videos from the Validation set which were over 250 seconds long.
of the videos, a signiﬁcant part of a test video may not include any particular action,
and multiple instances may occur at different time-stamps within the video. Similarly,
the video may not contain any of the actions, for which the expected conﬁdence for
each action is zero.
Each team was allowed to submit the results of at most ﬁve runs. The run with the
best performance is selected as the primary run of the submission and is used to rank
the teams. Each run has to be saved in a separate text ﬁle with 102 columns 7, where
7Sample output for Classiﬁcation: http://goo.gl/sNQQBh
19
Action ID 07 09 12 21 22 23 24 26 31 33 36 40 45 51 68 79 85 92 93 97 All
Instances 71 791 187 140 360 316 351 887 151 67 441 406 361 305 519 214 114 210 208 266 6365
Length (secs)3.1 1.8 2.7 11.9 3.1 1.7 1.4 3.1 3.0 8.6 7.5 5.1 6.6 7.4 7.2 5.5 3.2 2.2 5.0 2.6 4.6
Ratio 12.2 24.0 14.5 47.8 27.1 13.5 11.6 29.7 38.2 30.3 40.8 31.3 24.6 31.5 40.2 33.7 19.2 22.6 39.3 28.5 28.0
Table 2: Statistics of temporal annotation for 20 action classes in the validation set of THUMOS’15 dataset.
For each class the rows indicate (i) the number of actions instances, (ii) the average length of action intervals
in seconds and (iii) the ratio of action length with respect to the length of the video.
the ﬁrst column contains the name of the test video, and rest of the columns contain
conﬁdences for the 101 actions. Essentially, each row shows the results of one test
video, and each column contains the conﬁdence score of presence of the corresponding
action class anywhere in the video. The conﬁdence scores must be between 0 and 1. A
larger conﬁdence value indicates greater conﬁdence to detect the action of interest in a
test video.
We use Interpolated Average Precision (AP) or 11-Point Average Precision as
the ofﬁcial measure for evaluating the results on each action class. Given a descending-
score-rank of videos for the test action class c, the AP(c) is computed as:
AP (c) =
∑n
k=1(Prec(k) × rel(k))∑n
k=1 rel(k) , (1)
where n is the total number videos, Prec (k) is the precision at cut-off k of the list,
rel(k) is an indicator function equaling to 1 if the video ranked k is a true positive,
and to zero otherwise. The denominator is the total number of true positives in the list.
Mean Average Precision (mAP) is then used to evaluate the performance of one run
over all action classes.
5.2. Temporal Detection
Temporal detection is evaluated for twenty classes of instantaneous actions 5 in all
test videos. The system is expected to output a real-valued score indicating the conﬁ-
dence of the prediction, as well as the starting and ending time for the given action 8.
For this task, each team is allowed to submit at most 5 runs. The run with the best
8Sample output for Temporal Detection: http://goo.gl/SWZbBM
20
performance is selected as the primary run of the submission and is used to rank across
teams. Each run must be saved in a separate text ﬁle with the following format, where
each row represents one detection output by the system:
[video name] [starting time] [ending time] [class label] [conﬁdence score]
Each row has ﬁve ﬁelds representing a single detection. A detector can ﬁre multiple
times in a test video (reported using multiple rows in the submission ﬁle). The time
must be in seconds with one decimal point precision. The conﬁdence score should be
between 0 and 1.
For evaluation, detected time intervals of a given class are sorted in the order of
decreasing detector conﬁdence and matched to ground truth intervals using Intersec-
tion over Union (IoU, also known as Jaccard) similarity measure. Detections with IoU
above a given threshold are declared as true positives. To penalize multiple detections
of the same action, at most one detection is assigned to each annotated action and the
remaining detections are declared as false positives. Annotations with no matching
detections are declared as false negatives. Given labels and conﬁdence values for de-
tections, the detector performance for an action class is evaluated by Average Precision
(AP). The mean AP value for twenty action classes (mAP) provides the ﬁnal perfor-
mance measure for a method. To account for somewhat subjective deﬁnition of action
boundaries, the evaluation is reported for different values of IoU threshold (10%, 20%,
30%, 40%, and 50%). Action intervals marked as ambiguous are excluded from the
evaluation, hence, all detections having non-zero overlap with ambiguous intervals are
ignored.
6. Methods
This section presents methods used by participants for both tasks at the THU-
MOS’15 challenge. A comprehensive survey of techniques and their evolution across
years is beyond the scope of this paper, and will be made after several more challenges
in the future.
21
6.1. Classiﬁcation
In this subsection we brieﬂy summarize the classiﬁcation methods of the 11 teams.
Table 3 summarizes the major feature extraction and fusion methods. Most teams
adopted two kinds of features, deep learning based features and the improved Dense
Trajectories (iDT) [3].
Team
Deep Features:
Structures & Encoding
Traditional
Features
Fusion
Methods
VGGNet
GoogleNet
FC 6,7,8
LCD
VLAD
Mean/Max Pool
iDT
MFCC
ASR
Average
Logistic Regression
Weighted
Geometric Mean
UTS & CMU [31] • • • • • – • • • – • – –
MSR Asia (MSM) [32] • – • – – • • • – • – – –
Zhejiang U. [33] • – • • • – • – – • – – –
INRIA LEAR [34] • – • • • • • – – • – – –
CUHK & SIAT [35] • • • – – • • – – • – – –
U. Amsterdam [36] – • • – • – • – – • – – –
Tianjin U. [37] • – – • • – • – – – – • –
USC & THU [38] • – • – – • • – – – – – •
U. Tokyo [39] • – • – • – • – – • – – –
ADSC, NUS & UIUC [40] • – • – – • • – – • – – –
UTSA [41] • – • – – • – – – – – – –
Table 3: The major feature extraction and fusion methods of all the teams. Here, the symbols • and –
represent the presence or absence of a feature or technique, respectively.
Deep learning features extracted by Convolutional Neural Networks (CNN) have
been popular in many visual recognition tasks. By considering different network ar-
chitectures and feature pooling methods, the resulting CNN features may vary greatly.
For network architectures, VGGNet [42], GoogleNet [43], ClarifaiNet [44] and 3D
ConvNets (C3D) [45] were used. In particular, VGGNet was used by most teams, and
GoogleNet was used by three teams (UTS&CMU, CUHK&SIAT, UvA). Each of the
22
remaining two networks was used by only one team (CUHK&SIAT used ClarifaiNet,
and MSM used C3D), which are therefore excluded from the table due to space lim-
itations. In addition, the recent two-stream CNN approach [5], which explores both
spatial stream (static frames) and temporal stream (optical ﬂows), was adopted by the
CUHK&SIAT team.
For the CNN based models, typically the outputs of 6th, 7th or 8th fully connected
layers (FC6, FC7, FC8) are used as features. A few teams also explored a recent
method called latent concept descriptors (LCD) [46]. In addition, as the CNN features
are computed on video frames, a pooling scheme is needed to convert the frame-level
feature into a video-level representation. For this, most teams adopted the Vectors of
Locally Aggregated Descriptors (VLAD) [47] and the conventional mean/max pooling.
The iDT is probably the most powerful hand-crafted feature for video classiﬁca-
tion. It extracts four kinds of features, i.e., trajectory shape, HOG, HOF and MBH, on
the spatial-temporal volumes along the extracted dense trajectories. The features are
encoded with the Fisher Vector (FV) [48] to generate a video level representation. The
UTS&CMU team used a variant of iDT, called enhanced iDT [49]. The UTS&CMU
and the MSM teams also used auditory features MFCC and ASR.
For classiﬁcation, all of the teams adopted SVM as the classiﬁer. In addition, the
USC&Tsinghua team adopted kernel ridge regression (KRR) [50] as an alternative
classiﬁer. While the classiﬁers are consistent across the teams, the fusion method
varies. As shown in the table, average fusion is the most popular option due to its
simplicity and good generalizability, but there are other strategies like weighted fusion,
logistic regression fusion, geometric mean fusion, etc.
6.2. Temporal Detection
This section summarizes the methods used for temporal detection of actions in test-
ing videos. For the THUMOS’15 challenge, we received 5 runs from only one team.
The team consists of researchers from Advanced Digital Sciences Center (ADSC), Na-
tional University of Singapore (NUS), and University of Illinois Urbana-Champaign
(UIUC). The temporal detection task attracted fewer participants compared to the clas-
siﬁcation task due to its higher computational requirements. Furthermore, temporal
23
detection is a new problem that was introduced recently in THUMOS. With very few
research efforts related to temporal detection in the past, we believe it will gain interest
of the wider community resulting in increased participation in the future.
The runs from ADSC, NUS and UIUC were obtained using the following pipeline:
First, the Improved Dense Trajectory (iDT) [3] features are extracted throughout the
video. For forming the Gaussian Mixture Model dictionary, only features from UCF101
are used. The video segments as encoded using Improved Fisher Vectors. The FVs
were not normalized to maintain additivity of Fisher Vectors. Besides the motion fea-
tures, scene features were extracted from VGG-19 deep net model [51]. In particular,
features were made from the last 4096-d rectiﬁed linear layer.
Since different actions have different lengths, the team used a pyramid of score
distributions as features. For each frame, they used nine windows of 10, 20, ... , 90
frames around it. The hypothesis was that the scores at the correct window length
should be highest, and should vary smoothly for neighboring temporal resolutions.
Next, the FV in each window are normalized to obtain Improved FV . This yields 9×101
scores, which are concatenated to form a feature vector. The action conﬁdences are
then computed using a 21-class SVM (20 actions, 1 background). Afterwards, they use
median ﬁltering on output labels for smoothness.
7. Results
In this section, we present results and analysis of the approaches from the THU-
MOS’15 challenge presented in the previous section.
7.1. Classiﬁcation
Next, we summarize and discuss the results of the classiﬁcation task. We received
47 submissions from the 11 teams. Table 4 shows the overall results of all the submis-
sions, measured by mAP. The best mAP from each team is highlighted in bold. The
teams are sorted based on their highest mAP.
As discussed earlier, most of the approaches adopted two kinds of features: iDT
features and deep learning features. IDT features were used by all the top-10 teams,
24
Rank Team Run1 Run2 Run3 Run4 Run5
1 UTS & CMU [31] 0.7384 0.7157 0.7011 0.6913 0.647
2 MSR Asia (MSM) [32] 0.6861 0.6869 0.6878 0.6886 0.6897
3 Zhejiang U. [33] 0.6876 0.6643 0.6859 0.6809 0.5625
4 INRIA LEAR [34] 0.6814 0.6811 0.5395 0.6739 0.6793
5 CUHK & SIAT [35] 0.4894 0.5746 0.6803 0.6576 0.6604
6 U. Amsterdam [36] 0.6798 NA NA NA NA
7 Tianjin U. [37] 0.6666 0.6551 0.6324 0.5514 0.5357
8 USC & THU [38] 0.6354 0.6398 0.6346 0.5639 0.6357
9 U. of Tokyo [39] 0.6159 0.6172 0.6174 0.6087 0.4986
10 ADSC, NUS & UIUC [40] 0.4471 0.3451 0.4849 0.4869 0.3466
11 UTSA [41] 0.3981 NA NA NA NA
Table 4: Classiﬁcation Results measured by mAP (%). Each team could submit up to ﬁve runs. The teams
are sorted based on their highest mAP.
and deep learning features were used by all the teams. Based on the results, we make
the following observations: 1) The LCD coding with the VLAD representation [46]
is very effective; 2) ﬁne-tuning the CNN models can bring further improvements; and
3) some specially designed network structures for video analysis are helpful, e.g., the
two-stream CNN [5]. Furthermore, the results also indicate that multi-modal fusion
with audio clues can consistently improve the results.
7.1.1. Per-action Results
Figure 5 shows the results of each action class, where the bars depict the AP of
each action and the curve represents the results of all the actions sorted in decreasing
AP values. For each action, the result is obtained by averaging the results of all the
submissions. We can see that the AP varies signiﬁcantly across different actions, from
the lowest value of 19.8% to the highest of 96.4%. The curve of sorted AP ﬁts well
with a straight line, which indicates that the numbers of actions that are easy/hard to
be distinguished are evenly distributed. The mAP over all the action classes is 61.3%,
which reﬂects an average level of recognition capability of all the teams.
While the results are promising in general, there is still room for improvement.
25
0
0.2
0.4
0.6
0.8
1
ApplyEyeMakeup
ApplyLipstick
Archery
BabyCrawling
BalanceBeam
BandMarching
BaseballPitch
Basketball
BasketballDunk
BenchPress
Biking
Billiards
BlowDryHair
BlowingCandles
BodyWeightSquats
Bowling
BoxingPunchingBag
BoxingSpeedBag
BreastStroke
BrushingTeeth
CleanAndJerk
CliffDiving
CricketBowling
CricketShot
CuttingInKitchen
Diving
Drumming
Fencing
FieldHockeyPenalty
FloorGymnastics
FrisbeeCatch
FrontCrawl
GolfSwing
Haircut
Hammering
HammerThrow
HandstandPushups
HandstandWalking
HeadMassage
HighJump
HorseRace
HorseRiding
HulaHoop
IceDancing
JavelinThrow
JugglingBalls
JumpingJack
JumpRope
Kayaking
Knitting
LongJump
AP
0
0.2
0.4
0.6
0.8
1
Lunges
MilitaryParade
Mixing
MoppingFloor
Nunchucks
ParallelBars
PizzaTossing
PlayingCello
PlayingDaf
PlayingDhol
PlayingFlute
PlayingGuitar
PlayingPiano
PlayingSitar
PlayingTabla
PlayingViolin
PoleVault
PommelHorse
PullUps
Punch
PushUps
Rafting
RockClimbingIndoor
RopeClimbing
Rowing
SalsaSpin
ShavingBeard
Shotput
SkateBoarding
Skiing
Skijet
SkyDiving
SoccerJuggling
SoccerPenalty
StillRings
SumoWrestling
Surfing
Swing
TableTennisShot
TaiChi
TennisSwing
ThrowDiscus
TrampolineJumping
Typing
UnevenBars
VolleyballSpiking
WalkingWithDog
WallPushups
WritingOnBoard
YoYo
AP
Figure 5: Per-action results, measured by AP: The bars depict the AP for each action, and the curve represents
the results of all the actions sorted in decreasing AP values. For each action, we report the average AP from
all the submissions.
Table 5 lists the action classes which are easy or hard to be recognized. Some classes
like ‘Bowling’ and ‘Surﬁng’ are easy but there are many difﬁcult ones that can confuse
the classiﬁer. For example, ‘BlowDryHair’ is visually very similar to ‘Haircut’. More
advanced techniques are needed to distinguish these classes.
Figure 6 further shows the precision-recall curves. We plot the curves for a few
classes with high (‘Bowling’, ‘Surﬁng’), medium (‘CricketBowling’, ‘PlayingGuitar’)
and low (‘BlowDryHair’, ‘Haircut’) AP numbers. The team names in the legend of
each ﬁgure are sorted by their AP values. Overall, the classes with higher accuracies
tend to contain more unique/representative objects/scenes, while some difﬁcult classes
often share similar visual contents that are hard to be separated using state-of-the-art
features (e.g., the classes ‘BlowDryHair’ and ‘Haircut’).
We also provide several representative frames from videos in Figures 7—12, re-
spectively for the classes with precision-recall curves shown in Figure 6. The frames
26
Easy Classes AP Difﬁcult Classes AP
SkyDiving 0.964 Punch 0.198
PommelHorse 0.955 ShotPut 0.216
Rowing 0.933 Lunges 0.252
Skiing 0.925 BrushingTeeth 0.265
BalanceBeam 0.905 BreastStroke 0.273
Rafting 0.902 MoppingFloor 0.286
Surﬁng 0.881 Haircut 0.290
FloorGymnastics 0.875 Hammering 0.315
Drumming 0.873 PushUps 0.331
Bowling 0.872 BlowDryHair 0.347
Table 5: The top 10 easy and difﬁcult classes in THUMOS’15.
are selected based on the best run in THUMOS’15 (from the UTS&CMU team). For
each class, we show the top-5 positive videos found by the best run in the ﬁrst row, the
bottom-5 positive videos in the second row, and the top-5 negative videos (false alarms)
in the third row. As can be seen from the ﬁgures, the top ranked negative samples are
all visually very similar to the positive ones, which demand more advanced features
and classiﬁers to be correctly separated. We also observe that, for many classes that
are easier to be recognized, they contain unique background scene settings. While
for the difﬁcult classes (e.g., ‘BlowDryHair’), the actions may happen under differ-
ent scene backgrounds. This indicate that current algorithms may signiﬁcantly rely
on background scenes to support action recognition, not just focusing on the actions
themselves.
7.1.2. Impact of Background Videos
We also evaluate the impact of background videos in Figure 13 which shows AP
per-action with and without background videos in the test set. In this ﬁgure, the blue
histogram represents the results without background videos and the red histogram rep-
resents the ofﬁcial results with the background videos. Overall, the mAP after ex-
cluding the background videos is 76.3%, which is 15% higher than the results with
27
recall
0 0.2 0.4 0.6 0.8 1
precision
0
0.1
0.2
0.3
0.4
0.5
0.6
0.7
0.8
0.9
1
CUHK&SIAT (0.93)
UTS&CMU (0.91)
Tianjin U. (0.90)
MSR Asia (0.90)
U. Amsterdam (0.89)
NUS&UIUC (0.88)
Zhejiang U. (0.87)
USC&Tsinghua (0.86)
INRIA LEAR (0.86)
U. Tokyo (0.84)
UTSA (0.77)
(chance) (0.005)
(a) Bowling
recall
0 0.2 0.4 0.6 0.8 1
precision
0
0.1
0.2
0.3
0.4
0.5
0.6
0.7
0.8
0.9
1
MSR Asia (0.97)
UTS&CMU (0.96)
Tianjin U. (0.95)
INRIA LEAR (0.94)
Zhejiang U. (0.93)
U. Amsterdam (0.92)
CUHK&SIAT (0.92)
U. Tokyo (0.88)
USC&Tsinghua (0.82)
UTSA (0.81)
NUS&UIUC (0.78)
(chance) (0.007) (b) Surﬁng
recall
0 0.2 0.4 0.6 0.8 1
precision
0
0.1
0.2
0.3
0.4
0.5
0.6
0.7
0.8
0.9
1
MSR Asia (0.87)
INRIA LEAR (0.86)
U. Amsterdam (0.85)
Zhejiang U. (0.81)
U. Tokyo (0.76)
UTS&CMU (0.72)
CUHK&SIAT (0.69)
USC&Tsinghua (0.55)
Tianjin U. (0.50)
UTSA (0.33)
NUS&UIUC (0.27)
(chance) (0.008)
(c) CricketBowling
recall
0 0.2 0.4 0.6 0.8 1
precision
0
0.1
0.2
0.3
0.4
0.5
0.6
0.7
0.8
0.9
1
UTS&CMU (0.68)
CUHK&SIAT (0.65)
USC&Tsinghua (0.60)
Tianjin U. (0.59)
INRIA LEAR (0.59)
U. Tokyo (0.57)
Zhejiang U. (0.57)
UTSA (0.53)
U. Amsterdam (0.53)
MSR Asia (0.43)
NUS&UIUC (0.38)
(chance) (0.013) (d) PlayingGuitar
recall
0 0.2 0.4 0.6 0.8 1
precision
0
0.1
0.2
0.3
0.4
0.5
0.6
0.7
0.8
0.9
1
UTS&CMU (0.51)
USC&Tsinghua (0.50)
Tianjin U. (0.42)
U. Tokyo (0.38)
U. Amsterdam (0.36)
Zhejiang U. (0.35)
NUS&UIUC (0.35)
UTSA (0.28)
INRIA LEAR (0.26)
MSR Asia (0.23)
CUHK&SIAT (0.22)
(chance) (0.006)
(e) BlowDryHair
recall
0 0.2 0.4 0.6 0.8 1
precision
0
0.1
0.2
0.3
0.4
0.5
0.6
0.7
0.8
0.9
1
USC&Tsinghua (0.81)
UTS&CMU (0.36)
U. Tokyo (0.34)
Zhejiang U. (0.31)
CUHK&SIAT (0.28)
U. Amsterdam (0.25)
INRIA LEAR (0.25)
MSR Asia (0.22)
Tianjin U. (0.20)
NUS&UIUC (0.16)
UTSA (0.14)
(chance) (0.007) (f) Haircut
Figure 6: Precision-recall curves of a few classes with high (‘Bowling’, ‘Surﬁng’), medium (‘CricketBowl-
ing’, ‘PlayingGuitar’) and low (‘BlowDryHair’, ‘Haircut’) AP values.
28
Figure 7: Video frames for class ‘Bowling’: First row: top-5 positive videos. Second row: bottom-5 positive
videos. Third row: top-5 negative videos. Prediction scores are shown on the frames.
Figure 8: Video frames for class ‘Surﬁng’: First row: top-5 positive videos. Second row: bottom-5 positive
videos. Third row: top-5 negative videos. Prediction scores are shown on the frames.
Figure 9: Video frames for class ‘CricketBowling’: First row: top-5 positive videos. Second row: bottom-5
positive videos. Third row: top-5 negative videos. Prediction scores are shown on the frames.
29
Figure 10: Video frames for class ‘PlayingGuitar’: First row: top-5 positive videos. Second row: bottom-5
positive videos. Third row: top-5 negative videos. Prediction scores are shown on the frames.
Figure 11: Video frames for class ‘BlowDryHair’: First row: top-5 positive videos. Second row: bottom-5
positive videos. Third row: top-5 negative videos. Prediction scores are shown on the frames.
Figure 12: Video frames for class ‘Haircut’: First row: top-5 positive videos. Second row: bottom-5 positive
videos. Third row: top-5 negative videos. Prediction scores are shown on the frames.
30
0
0.2
0.4
0.6
0.8
1
1 6 11 16 21 26 31 36 41 46 51 56 61 66 71 76 81 86 91 96 101
AP
Action Class
Without Background Videos
With Background Videos
Figure 13: Effect of background videos: Blue histogram represents results without the background videos,
and red histogram plots results including the background videos. Results are sorted based on the former.
This ﬁgure is best viewed in color.
the background videos (61.3%). This indicates that background videos have criti-
cal inﬂuence on the performance, which is easy to understand. Some classes like
‘FrisbeeCatch’, ‘WalkingWithDog’ and ‘BlowDryHair’ show signiﬁcant performance
degradation. The main reason is that the background videos contain samples that are
visually (but not semantically) similar to these classes. Adding more negative samples
during model training might be helpful for these classes. It would be interesting to
study this in the future.
7.2. Temporal Detection
The results for the temporal detection task for THUMOS’15 are presented in Ta-
ble 6. In this table, the mAP is computed at overlaps of 10%, 20%, 30%, 40% and
50%. Run1 from ADSC, NUS and UIUC has the best results compared to the other
four runs, with mAP of ∼41% at an overlap of 10%. The difference between Run 1
and Runs 2-5 is the use of context features. Run 1 only uses iDT features, while others
fuse appearance and scene features from deep networks. This is contradictory to the
classiﬁcation results, where fusion with appearance features in general, and features
from deep networks in particular result in signiﬁcant improvement in performance.
However, due to the nature of temporal detection task, the appearance of scene features
31
0
0.1
0.2
0.3
0.4
0.5
0.6AP
Figure 14: Per-Action Average Precision using ADSC, NUS and UIUC - Run1 on the 20 classes used for the
temporal detection task.
cause a signiﬁcant drop in performance. This is because for detection, it is important
that the algorithm correctly detects the action, and does not produce false alarms on the
rest of the positive videos. The appearance features reduce the discrimination between
action segments and background within positive videos, and therefore result in drop
in performance. Furthermore, ADSC, NUS and UIUC concluded that it is important
to use multiple temporal scales while temporally localizing the actions. Using just a
single scale (instead of 9) results in ∼30% drop in performance.
Figure 14 shows the per-action performance on the 20 classes. The action classes
with high performance include ‘HammerThrow’, ‘LongJump’, and ‘ThrowDiscus’,
whereas the classes with low performance include ‘Billiards’, ‘ShotPut’ and ‘TennisS-
wing’. ‘GolfSwing’ and ‘V olleyballSpiking’ have the worse results of all. The results
are correlated with the length of the actions, with short and swift actions such as ‘Golf-
Swing’ being the most difﬁcult to localize.
8. Action Recognition in Untrimmed Videos
The past few decades of research on action recognition has primarily focused on
trimmed videos that only contained an action of interest in each video. The lack of a
dataset for untrimmed videos and preference of classiﬁcation over detection task de-
32
Rank Team-Run / Overlap 10% 20% 30% 40% 50%
1 ADSC, NUS & UIUC - Run1 [40] 0.4086 0.3629 0.3076 0.2351 0.1830
1 ADSC, NUS & UIUC - Run2 [40] 0.1611 0.1349 0.1072 0.0830 0.0562
1 ADSC, NUS & UIUC - Run3 [40] 0.1577 0.1346 0.1117 0.0882 0.0652
1 ADSC, NUS & UIUC - Run4 [40] 0.1386 0.1154 0.0939 0.0728 0.0510
1 ADSC, NUS & UIUC - Run5 [40] 0.1413 0.1180 0.0980 0.0773 0.0552
Table 6: Temporal Detection results measured by mAP (%). Each team can submit up to ﬁve runs. The
percentages correspond to different values of overlaps.
viated the research on action recognition to focus on pre-segmented trimmed videos.
Nevertheless, there have been a few approaches developed for classiﬁcation [11, 12,
29, 52, 53, 54] and localization [13, 14, 25, 15, 18, 26] in untrimmed videos. How-
ever, the lack of a large-scale benchmark dataset of untrimmed videos was a pressing
need that was ﬁrst fulﬁlled in 2014 with the release of THUMOS’14. In this section,
we investigate classiﬁcation performance of state-of-the-art action representations and
learning methods in untrimmed setups where target actions occupy a relatively small
part of longer videos. In particular, we explore the following questions:
• What are the important differences between trimmed and untrimmed videos for
action recognition?
• How well methods designed for trimmed videos perform on untrimmed videos?
• What are the different approaches to represent content and context for action
recognition in untrimmed videos?
Since we aim to study the role of actions (content) and background (context) in
untrimmed videos - which requires temporal annotations - we perform experiments on
the 20 action classes with manually annotated action intervals (see Section 4). Recall
that the THUMOS’15 Validation set was formed by merging THUMOS’14 Validation
and Test sets, and we collected a new Test set for THUMOS’15. For all the experiments
in this section, we used THUMOS’14 Validation Set and/or THUMOS’14 Training Set
(UCF101) for training, and the THUMOS’14 Test set for testing.
33
GlobalContent
  only 
[Descriptor]
[Descriptor] [Descriptor]
Context only [Descriptor]
Sliding 
window [Descriptor]
Loose crop
[Descriptor] [Descriptor]
Content & Context 
Modeling
[Descriptor    Descriptor ]B F
VideoTemporal
annotation
Figure 15: Video representations for action recognition in untrimmed videos. Here, red represents a positive
action instance in the video whereas blue indicates the background portion.
8.1. Representations
To systematically investigate the role of context or background, we construct sev-
eral representations simulating different amounts of trimming around the action in-
stances (content). These representations are illustrated in Figure 15 and are described
below:
R1 - Global: In the global representation, we extract action descriptor from the full
video without using any knowledge about the ground truth action intervals. This is the
most straightforward application of standard techniques to untrimmed settings.
R2 - Content Only: Here we assume all action boundaries to be known and extract
34
one descriptor for each action interval. This setup resembles the majority of common
action methods and datasets with trimmed action boundaries.
R3 - Context Only: Video intervals outside action boundaries often correlate with
temporally close actions and can provide contextual cues for action recognition. For
example, tennis swing action co-occurs with running and typically appears on tennis
courts. To investigate the effect of contextual cues, we extract descriptors from an
entire video excluding action intervals.
R4 - Sliding Window: Here we do not use any knowledge about action boundaries
and assume actions occupy compact temporal windows. We model the uncertainty in
temporal position of an action and compute descriptors for overlapping windows of
length 4 seconds using temporal stride of 2 seconds.
R5 - Loose crop: This setup is derived from the Content Only representation by grad-
ually extending the initial action interval into background. We extend initial action
boundaries by 1, 3, and 7 seconds before and after the action. Note that the exten-
sion of temporal boundaries to the full video is equivalent to the Global representation
above.
R6 - Content & Context Modeling: Given a mechanism that can separate content
from context, this representation aims to understand if there is any beneﬁt in modeling
them separately. Therefore, we combine Content Only and Context Only representa-
tions by concatenating representations computed from action intervals and the temporal
background.
8.2. Features
Local video features are a standard choice for action representation. We adopt com-
mon, standard, and well performing features, in particular Improved Dense Trajectory
Features (IDTF) [3], to focus on experiments on various representations and methods.
Following [3], we use HOF and MBH features based on optical ﬂow to capture the
motion information in the video. We also use HOG features based on the orientation
of spatial image gradients to captures static information in the scene. All descriptors
35
are computed in space-time volumes along 15-frames long point tracks, hence, they
capture information in motion-aligned local neighborhood of a video.
To aggregate local features into video descriptors we use Fisher Vector encoding
(FV) [55]. FV has been shown to consistently outperform histogram-based bag-of-
feature aggregation techniques [4]. We use Gaussian Mixture Model with K=256
learned separately for each type of local feature, after reducing the dimensionality of
HOG, HOF and MPH using PCA.
Since computing features is the most expensive step to represent video intervals
with different temporal locations and temporal extents, we compute FVs for consequent
chunks of 10 frames of a video without FV normalization independently for HOG, HOF
and MBH. To obtain a FV descriptor for a given video interval, we used the additivity
property of Fisher Vectors [56] by taking weighted sum of FVs corresponding to 10-
frames chunks followed by L2 normalization. Thus, this approach allowed us to avoid
re-computation of features for generating different representations as required by our
setup.
8.3. Experimental Results
Next, we report results and analysis of our experiments on action classiﬁcation and
temporal detection in untrimmed videos. We also investigate the role context plays
in detecting actions in untrimmed videos. Context refers to the background portion
of a positive video which does not contain any instance of the labeled action (R3).
We evaluate the different representations in Section 8.1 to convert the localized (e.g.,
frame-level) annotations into video-level action labels: Global, Content Only, Context
Only, Sliding window, Loose Crop, and Content & Context modeling.
8.3.1. Action Classiﬁcation in Untrimmed Videos
We investigate the ﬁrst ﬁve representations R1–R5 at test time and report action
classiﬁcation results. For training, we assume a fully-supervised setup with known ac-
tion intervals. We use trimmed videos from the THUMOS’14 Training Set (UCF101)
and annotated action instances from the THUMOS’14 Validation Set as positive sam-
ples for a particular action class, i.e., one descriptor per positive instance. For negative
36
Training Setup Testing Representation mAP
Context Only (R3) Global (R1) 0.46
Content Only (R2) Global (R1) 0.68
Content Only (R2) Content Only (R2) 0.72
Content Only (R2) Sliding Window (average pooling) (R4)0.77
Content Only (R2) Sliding Window (max pooling) (R4) 0.78
Table 7: Comparison of the various training and aggregation representations. The mean average precision
(mAP) presented is obtained after re-balancing, where we ensure that number of testing instances is identical
for all the ﬁve cases. This is achieved through repeating each video proportional to the number of action
instances contained within that video.
samples, we generate a single descriptor from each background video in THUMOS’14
Validation Set, and one descriptor per sliding window from the background portion of
positive videos (Context Only). We learn one-vs-rest classiﬁers for all action classes,
where the negative samples include positive instances from the other classes in addition
to background samples. Table 7 summarizes the results of the video-level classiﬁcation
task. For each case, we report the mean average precision, reweighted by the number
of instances in each test set. This makes the number of test instances identical for all
cases and enables direct comparison between them. We make several observations:
• The Global case in the second row corresponds to the real-world deployment of
a traditional action recognizer, which is trained on trimmed data (Content Only)
and tested on features aggregated over an entire untrimmed test video. However,
comparing this to Context Only in the ﬁrst row is heartening: we conﬁrm that
the method is strongly inﬂuenced by the frames containing the action of interest
(rather than context alone). Removing the action frames drops mAP from 0.68
to 0.46 for IDTF.
• The Content Only in the third row corresponds to the (artiﬁcial) scenario, where
the action of interest is manually segmented from the untrimmed video, enabling
each representation to be aggregated only over relevant frames. As expected,
mAP improves from 0.68 to 0.72.
37
0
0.2
0.4
0.6
0.8
1
Average Precision (AP)
mAP
baseballpitchbasketballdunk
billiards
cleanandjerkcliffdiving
cricketbowling
cricketshot
diving
frisbeecatchgolfswing
hammerthrow
highjump
javelinthrow
longjumppolevaultshotput
soccerpenaltytennisswingthrowdiscus
 
 
Global
volleyballspiking
Content only
Context only
Loose Crop
Sliding Window (av.)
Sliding Window (max)
Figure 16: Classiﬁcation Performance: This graph shows the results when training is performed on UCF-
101 and trimmed action instances of the THUMOS’14 Validation subset, and testing is performed on THU-
MOS’14 Test set using representations R1 to R5. Sliding Window with both average and max pooling is
reported in this graph.
• The Sliding Window scenario is a systematic way (though computationally ex-
pensive) way to deploy an action recognizer trained on trimmed data on untrimmed
videos. We see that it performs the best and that the choice of pooling strategy
(max vs. average) has little impact, with max pooling (0.78 mAP) better by only
0.01.
Figure 16 shows results of these experiments individually for the 20 classes. We
also investigate the reason for superior performance of Sliding Window approach over
other cases. In this regard, Figure 17 shows examples of temporal detection results
for several categories of sample videos. We note that the action of interest (black
curve) rises above the average of responses from other actions (green curve) when the
action is present. This explains why Sliding Window approaches work well for video-
level classiﬁcation with either form of pooling compared to theGlobal representation.
The actions are usually much shorter than an entire untrimmed video and the detector
gives better performance for those short durations. When aggregated and pooled over
multiple smaller windows within the testing video, the overall results improve.
We also performed experiments for different parameters of Sliding Window (R4)
and Loose Crop (R5) with results shown in Table 8. For Loose Crop experiments in
38
video_test_0000051
1
0.9
0.8
0.7
0.6
0.5
0.4
0.3
0.2
0.1
0
score
0                          50                        100
Time
video_test_0000940
1
0.9
0.8
0.7
0.6
0.5
0.4
0.3
0.2
0.1
0
score
0             20            40            60            80
Time
video_test_0000964
1
0.9
0.8
0.7
0.6
0.5
0.4
0.3
0.2
0.1
0
score
0                     20                    40                    60
Time
video_test_00001114
1
0.9
0.8
0.7
0.6
0.5
0.4
0.3
0.2
0.1
0
score
0             10            20            30            40
Time
(a) Billiards (b) Cliff Diving (c) Baseball Pitch (d) Shotput
Figure 17: Examples of temporal detection scores over time: This ﬁgure shows four graphs for different
actions. The x-axis is time along the video and y-axis shows the detector scores. The ground truth is shown
at the top in red (action) and blue (background). The black curve is detector score for the ground truth
action, whereas green curve shows mean of scores from all other detectors. Note that the action of interest
rises above the mean response when the action is present, showing why sliding window works well for
video-level classiﬁcation (when pooled) as well as temporal detection.
the ﬁrst ﬁve rows, the performance of action classiﬁcation drops as window length
is increased around the action instance. The 120 second loose crop corresponds to
the Global (R1) case as can be seen with mAP of 0.68 from Table 7. The results for
Sliding Window(R4) are shown in the bottom part of Table 8. The optimal performance
is achieved when the window length is 4 seconds and drops when it is either smaller
or larger. This is because the average duration of actions for the 20 classes is around
3.75 seconds, and thus the detector output is optimized around this window length.
Nonetheless, the drop in performance is nominal for longer windows and showsSliding
Window is not sensitive to window length.
8.3.2. Role of Context for Classiﬁcation in Untrimmed Videos
Context plays an important role in the ability of the classiﬁers to make good pre-
dictions. However, context alone is not sufﬁcient for obtaining good performance. Re-
moving the action of interest from training decreases performance from 0.68 mAP to
0.46 mAP (Table 7). The mAP for different runs evaluating the role of context are sum-
marized in Table 9, while Fig. 18 shows the same for the 20 concepts individually. This
particular experiment evaluates on Content & Context (R6) representation and thus the
training data requires untrimmed videos containing action instances. Thus, we can-
39
Testing Representation Window Length Pooling mAP
Loose Crop (R5)
(1FV per loose GT window)
0 sec loose - 0.72
1 sec loose - 0.71
3 sec loose - 0.69
7 sec loose - 0.69
120 sec loose - 0.68
Sliding Window (R4)
(1FV per sliding window)
2 sec long Max 0.76
2 sec long Average 0.77
4 sec long Max 0.78
4 sec long Average 0.77
7 sec long Max 0.77
7 sec long Average 0.76
10 sec long Max 0.76
10 sec long Average 0.76
Table 8: Video classiﬁcation with Loose Crop (R5) and Sliding Window (R4): For all experiments we train
models on UCF101 (1FV per video) + background set (1FV per video) + Validation (1FV per GT window,
1FV for each sliding window on the background part).
40
0.2
0.3
0.4
0.5
0.6
0.7Average Precision (AP)
mAP
baseballpitchbasketballdunk
billiards
cleanandjerk
cliffdiving
cricketbowling
cricketshot
diving
frisbeecatch
golfswing
hammerthrow
highjump
javelinthrow
longjumppolevaultshotput
soccerpenaltytennisswingthrowdiscus
volleyballspiking
 
 Global (R1)
Context Only (R3)
Content Only (R2)
Separate Content-Context Models (R6)
Figure 18: This graph shows average precision (AP) for 20 actions using the THUMOS’14 Validation and
Test sets for different combinations of content and context for representing the videos.
not use UCF101 since its videos are trimmed (no additional context), and background
videos from THUMOS’14 Validation set that do not contain content. The training is
performed on positive videos from the THUMOS’14 Validation Set, while testing per-
formed on THUMOS’14 Test Set.
In Fig. 18, the blue bars denote the Global descriptor for untrimmed videos (R1),
light-blue shows Context Only (R3), yellow depicts Content Only (R2) i.e., trimmed
actions, while red marks the results obtained by concatenating descriptors for Content
& Context (R6). The graph reveals an important insight that context described sep-
arately but used in conjunction with content gives the best performance compared to
training using Content Only (R2). Therefore, gains in performance can be achieved
through separate modeling content and context for action classiﬁcation. For this run,
we used information about action boundaries during testing. In realistic scenario, this
is expected to be obtained with methods that can generate generic action proposals.
8.3.3. Temporal Detection in Untrimmed Video
We also report some results for the task of temporal detection on 20 action classes.
In this case, we use the same training setup as for action classiﬁcation using Training
and Validation subsets. At test time we use the classiﬁer in a sliding window manner in
combination with temporal non-maximum suppression to select a single action interval
for each action hypothesis on the THUMOS’14 Test set. Fig. 19 reports AP per class
41
Training Setup Testing RepresentationsmAP
1FV per GT win, 1FV for each sliding win on BG Global (R1) 0.42
1FV per GT win, 1FV for each sliding win on BG Content only (R2) 0.45
1FV per GT win, 1FV for each sliding win on BG Context only (R3) 0.39
1FV per GT win + 1FV for BG Content & Context (R6) 0.49
Table 9: This table shows the experimental results on different approaches to handling context. The training
is performed using positive videos of THUMOS’14 Validation Set and testing is performed on THUMOS’14
Test Set.
using sliding windows. IDTF achieves a mAP of 0.67 on this task. Furthermore, a
sliding window for 4 seconds outperforms that of 2 seconds by a margin of 0.03.
9. Future Directions
There are several thrusts for improving action recognition, we focus on two of them
in line with the THUMOS challenge: the dataset and evaluation tasks that quantify
performance on different aspects of action recognition. We believe having a denser,
more comprehensive, and more generalizable understanding of a video is the way for-
ward. We plan to introduce the spatio-temporal localization task in weakly super-
vised setting, where training is performed on untrimmed videos without the availabil-
ity of frame-level annotations or bounding boxes. The test set, however, will contain
frame-level and bounding box annotations for the detection and localization tasks, re-
spectively.
THUMOS’15 contains about 13000 trimmed videos for training the 101 action
classes, as well as approximately 10500 untrimmed videos in the validation and test
sets. The dataset amounts to ∼370 gigabytes of data, making it the largest dataset
for actions and activities. We propose an extension of THUMOS’15 dataset, which
despite being the largest video dataset for action recognition, is still deﬁcient both
in the number of classes as well as number of instances per class. For that we will
deﬁne action and activity classes associated with a variety of verbs. This will give us
the most comprehensive set of classes speciﬁcally aimed at capturing human motion.
The number of classes will be several times larger than current dataset, with at least
42
0
0.1
0.2
0.3
0.4
0.5
0.6
0.7
0.8
0.9Average Precision (AP)
mAP
baseballpitchbasketballdunk
billiards
cleanandjerk
cliffdiving
cricketbowling
cricketshot
diving
frisbeecatchgolfswing
hammerthrow
highjump
javelinthrow
longjumppolevaultshotput
soccerpenaltytennisswingthrowdiscus
volleyballspiking
 
 
Sliding Window (2 sec)
Sliding Window (4 sec)
Figure 19: This ﬁgure shows the temporal detection performance on 20 action classes. The blue and red bars
represent sliding windows of 2 and 4 seconds, respectively.
200 instances per action. The space requirement are expected to be on the order of
terabytes.
Moreover, our aim is to move from visual (appearance and motion) perception
in videos to a deeper semantic understanding by describing different objects, actions
and their interaction among themselves and the environment in terms of attributes,
semantic relationships and textual descriptions. Hence, the goal is not only to detect
objects and actions, but also explain their complex spatial and temporal interactions.
For this, we plan to add a wide variety of videos with primary focus on actions and
activities performed by humans, both as individuals or in groups, and then perform
dense annotations for objects, actions, scenes, attributes, and the inter-relationships
between objects, actions and environment.
For assigning labels to objects, actions and scenes, we propose to use WordNet
as it allows modeling of structured knowledge. The WordNet Synsets will relate the
different nouns, verbs and adjectives. Here, it will be important to consider the trade-
43
off between consistency and diversity. The consistency requires that we reuse labels
that have been used before, so that a particular object or action has the same label across
videos. However, this desire is in tension with diversity, as it limits the number of new
labels that can be assigned to objects and actions. For instance, the terms ‘person’ and
‘man’ might refer to the same subject. Similarly, the actions ‘jump’ and ‘plunge’ are
interchangeable in some contexts. WordNet Synsets are able to relate these words as
‘person’ is a hyperonym of ‘man’, and ‘jump’ and ‘plunge’ are synonyms. Thus, the
trade-off could be controlled by preferring speciﬁc labels over more general labels and
using them consistently, however, other speciﬁc labels will be used whenever relevant
and available. This will also allow us to transfer many appearance attributes directly
from WordNet. The label ‘grass’ will be immediately labeled with green due to the
structured knowledge available in WordNet. Indeed, this will require veriﬁcation from
the annotators, but the transfer of attributes and properties will save time and effort
while generating richer and dense annotations for a large video dataset.
For cognitive understanding of videos, it is important that training data contains
detailed annotations about how the objects, actions and scenes interact with each other.
Moreover, qualitative properties of objects and actions, termed attributes also add to
the semantic understanding of video data. We will include both appearance attributes
that capture the visual qualities of objects including color, size, shape, as well asmotion
attributes which are related to the actor, such as the body parts used, their articulation,
and type and speed of movement etc. Next, these relationships will be expressed using
a structured representation with WordNet. For instance, a man playing violin could
be playing (man, violin) , and a woman holding eye brush as holding (woman, eye
brush). Once these relationships have been constructed for objects, actions, scenes
and attributes, they will be merged together to form a graphical representation. The
annotators will verify the validity of tree-graphs relating nouns, verbs and adjectives.
The annotations will be supplemented with text, as the ability to produce valid text
descriptions of videos is one of the measures of cognitive and high-level understanding.
We propose add textual descriptions for all interesting occurrences and events in a
video by ﬁrst annotating with bounding boxes and tubes. Different video regions will
have both spatial and temporal overlap with each other, and will have a description of
44
their own. For instance, to be able to detect the action ‘BasketballDunk’, we only need
to detect the person performing the action. However, for high-level reasoning such
as whether the actor is performing the action independently during practice, or while
playing a game with others, it is important that we are able to locate all other objects
and detect behaviors of other actors in the video. These dense text captions for each
video region will give local summaries and help train better models for cognitive video
understanding. The descriptions will be written in third-person present tense, and will
be veriﬁed for vocabulary and grammatical consistency.
Region-level descriptions in addition to shots selected for summarization through
manual annotation will allow evaluation of video-to-text approaches as well. While
annotating the videos for descriptions, it is important that the textual summary for
regions are not repeated and are diverse enough to delineate the events captured in
the video. We propose to do this in an online manner, where new descriptions from
an annotator will be nn-gram matched to existing descriptions, and highly matching
descriptions will be ﬂagged for an immediate update.
Finally, with the graphical structure representing the objects, actions and attributes
in addition to the textual descriptions for regions, it is straightforward to create Ques-
tion and Answer pairs that go beyond the detection and localization and allow com-
puters to exhibit cognitive understanding. These questions will emphasize the motion
of actions, such as:
• Which hand did the person use to apply makeup? Which eye?
• How long did the person hold the arrow in the bow?
• Was the baby crawling on its belly?
• What instrument was the person playing?
• Where were the people ice dancing?
• Who was performing gymnastics?
45
Conclusion
This paper describes the THUMOS dataset and the challenge is detail. The two
tasks include action classiﬁcation and temporal detection. We gave an overview of
the relationship of THUMOS to existing datasets, the procedure used to collect and
annotate thousand of videos. Furthermore, we described evaluation metrics used in
the challenge and methods and analysis of results for the THUMOS’15 competition.
Next, we presented a study on untrimmed videos which were introduced in the 2014
challenge. The results show that sliding window outperforms global description, and
separate modeling of content and context is certainly helpful for improving the perfor-
mance. We also presented several directions to improve the challenge and proposed
spatio-temporal localization and weakly supervised action recognition tasks in the fu-
ture challenges. Finally, by providing a large-scale benchmark dataset of untrimmed
videos to the vision community constituting dense annotations of objects, actions and
textual descriptions, we hope to foster research in holistic understanding of video data.
Acknowledgement: The authors thank George Toderici (Google Research), Jingen
Liu (SRI International) and Massimo Piccardi (Univ. of Tech., Sydney) for their con-
tributions to the THUMOS challenge.
References
References
[1] K. Soomro, A. R. Zamir, M. Shah, UCF101: A Dataset of 101 Human Action
Classes from Videos in the Wild, Tech. Rep. CRCV-TR-12-01, UCF, 2012.
[2] H. Kuehne, H. Jhuang, E. Garrote, T. Poggio, T. Serre, HMDB: A large video
database for human motion recognition, in: IEEE ICCV , 2011.
[3] H. Wang, C. Schmid, Action Recognition with Improved Trajectories, in: IEEE
ICCV , 2013.
46
[4] D. Oneata, J. Verbeek, C. Schmid, Action and Event Recognition with Fisher
Vectors on a Compact Feature Set, in: IEEE ICCV , 2013.
[5] K. Simonyan, A. Zisserman, Two-stream convolutional networks for action
recognition in videos, in: NIPS, 2014.
[6] M. Marszałek, I. Laptev, C. Schmid, Actions in context, in: IEEE CVPR, 2009.
[7] J. Liu, J. Luo, M. Shah, Recognizing realistic actions from videos “in the wild”,
in: IEEE CVPR, 2009.
[8] H. Pirsiavash, D. Ramanan, Detecting activities of daily living in ﬁrst-person
camera views, in: IEEE CVPR, 2012.
[9] M. S. Ryoo, L. Matthies, First-Person Activity Recognition: What Are They Do-
ing to Me?, in: IEEE CVPR, 2013.
[10] S. Satkin, M. Hebert, Modeling the temporal extent of actions, in: ECCV , 2010.
[11] P. Bojanowski, R. Lajugie, F. Bach, I. Laptev, J. Ponce, C. Schmid, J. Sivic,
Weakly supervised action labeling in videos under ordering constraints, in:
ECCV , 2014.
[12] O. Duchenne, I. Laptev, J. Sivic, F. Bach, J. Ponce, Automatic annotation of
human actions in video, in: IEEE ICCV , 2009.
[13] M. Hoai, Z.-Z. Lan, F. De la Torre, Joint segmentation and classiﬁcation of human
actions in video, in: IEEE CVPR, 2011.
[14] H. Pirsiavash, D. Ramanan, Parsing videos of actions with segmental grammars,
in: IEEE CVPR, 2014.
[15] Y . Ke, R. Sukthankar, M. Hebert, Event detection in crowded videos, in: IEEE
ICCV , 2007.
[16] A. Klaser, M. Marszałek, C. Schmid, A. Zisserman, Human Focused Action Lo-
calization in Video, in: International Workshop on Sign, Gesture, and Activity
(SGA), ECCV Workshops, 2010.
47
[17] I. Laptev, P. P´erez, Retrieving actions in movies, in: IEEE ICCV , 2007.
[18] Y . Tian, R. Sukthankar, M. Shah, Spatiotemporal deformable part models for
action detection, in: IEEE CVPR, 2013.
[19] Y .-G. Jiang, J. Liu, A. R. Zamir, G. Toderici, I. Laptev, M. Shah, R. Sukthankar,
THUMOS’14: ECCV Workshop on Action Recognition with a Large Number of
Classes, http://crcv.ucf.edu/THUMOS14/, 2014.
[20] A. Gorban, H. Idrees, Y .-G. Jiang, A. Roshan Zamir, I. Laptev, M. Shah, R. Suk-
thankar, THUMOS Challenge: Action Recognition with a Large Number of
Classes, http://www.thumos.info/, 2015.
[21] Y .-G. Jiang, J. Liu, A. R. Zamir, I. Laptev, M. Piccardi, M. Shah, R. Sukthankar,
THUMOS’13: ICCV Workshop on Action Recognition with a Large Number of
Classes, http://crcv.ucf.edu/ICCV13-Action-Workshop/, 2013.
[22] C. Schuldt, I. Laptev, B. Caputo, Recognizing Human Actions: A local SVM
Approach, in: ICPR, 2004.
[23] M. Blank, L. Gorelick, E. Shechtman, M. Irani, R. Basri, Actions as Space-Time
Shapes, in: IEEE ICCV , 2005.
[24] M. Rodriguez, J. Ahmed, M. Shah, Action MACH: A Spatio-temporal Maximum
Average Correlation Height Filter for Action Recognition, in: IEEE CVPR, 2008.
[25] Y . Ke, R. Sukthankar, M. Hebert, Efﬁcient visual event detection using volumetric
features, in: IEEE ICCV , 2005.
[26] J. Yuan, Z. Liu, Y . Wu, Discriminative Subvolume Search for Efﬁcient Action
Detection, in: IEEE CVPR, 2009.
[27] I. Laptev, M. Marszalek, C. Schmid, B. Rozenfeld, Learning Realistic Human
Actions from Movies, in: IEEE CVPR, 2008.
[28] K. K. Reddy, M. Shah, Recognizing 50 human action categories of web videos,
Machine Vision and Applications 24 (5) (2013) 971–981.
48
[29] A. Karpathy, G. Toderici, S. Shetty, T. Leung, R. Sukthankar, L. Fei-Fei, Large-
scale video classiﬁcation with convolutional neural networks, in: IEEE CVPR,
2014.
[30] E. Yilmaz, J. A. Aslam, Estimating average precision with incomplete and im-
perfect judgments, in: Proceedings of the 15th ACM international conference on
Information and knowledge management, ACM, 2006.
[31] Z. Xu, L. Zhu, Y . Yang, A. Hauptmann, UTS-CMU at THUMOS 2015, in: THU-
MOS’15 Action Recognition Challenge, 2015.
[32] Z. Qiu, Q. Li, T. Yao, T. Mei, Y . Rui, MSR Asia MSM at THUMOS Challenge
2015, in: THUMOS’15 Action Recognition Challenge, 2015.
[33] K. Ning, F. Wu, ZJUDCD Submission at THUMOS Challenge 2015, in: THU-
MOS’15 Action Recognition Challenge, 2015.
[34] X. Peng, C. Schmid, Encoding Feature Maps of CNNs for Action Recognition,
in: THUMOS’15 Action Recognition Challenge, 2015.
[35] L. Wang, Z. Wang, Y . Xiong, Y . Qiao, CUHK&SIAT submission for THU-
MOS’15 action recognition challenge, in: THUMOS’15 Action Recognition
Challenge, 2015.
[36] M. Jain, J. C. van Gemert, P. Mettes, C. G. Snoek, I. ISLA, University of Amster-
dam at THUMOS 2015, in: THUMOS’15 Action Recognition Challenge, 2015.
[37] Y . Liu, B. Fan, S. Zhao, Y . Xu, Y . Han, Tianjin University Submission at THU-
MOS Challenge 2015, in: THUMOS’15 Action Recognition Challenge, 2015.
[38] C. Gan, C. Sun, R. Kovvuri, R. Nevatia, USC & THU at THUMOS 2015, in:
THUMOS’15 Action Recognition Challenge, 2015.
[39] K. Ohnishi, T. Harada, MIL-UTokyo at THUMOS Challenge 2015, in: THU-
MOS’15 Action Recognition Challenge, 2015.
49
[40] J. Yuan, Y . Pei, B. Ni, P. Moulin, A. Kassim, ADSC Submission at THUMOS
Challenge 2015, in: THUMOS’15 Action Recognition Challenge, 2015.
[41] J. Cai, Q. Tian, UTSA submission to THUMOS 2015, in: THUMOS’15 Action
Recognition Challenge, 2015.
[42] K. Simonyan, A. Zisserman, Very deep convolutional networks for large-scale
image recognition, in: arXiv preprint arXiv:1409.1556, 2014.
[43] C. Szegedy, W. Liu, Y . Jia, P. Sermanet, S. Reed, D. Anguelov, D. Erhan, V . Van-
houcke, A. Rabinovich, Going deeper with convolutions, in: arXiv preprint
arXiv:1409.4842, 2014.
[44] M. D. Zeiler, R. Fergus, Visualizing and understanding convolutional networks,
in: ECCV , 2014.
[45] D. Tran, L. Bourdev, R. Fergus, L. Torresani, M. Paluri, Learning Spatiotemporal
Features with 3D Convolutional Networks, in: arXiv preprint arXiv:1412.0767,
2014.
[46] Z. Xu, Y . Yang, A. G. Hauptmann, A discriminative CNN video representation
for event detection, in: IEEE CVPR, 2015.
[47] H. J ´egou, M. Douze, C. Schmid, P. P ´erez, Aggregating local descriptors into a
compact image representation, in: IEEE CVPR, 2010.
[48] J. S ´anchez, F. Perronnin, T. Mensink, J. Verbeek, Image classiﬁcation with the
ﬁsher vector: Theory and practice, IJCV 105 (3) (2013) 222–245.
[49] Z. Lan, M. Lin, X. Li, A. G. Hauptmann, B. Raj, Beyond gaussian pyramid:
Multi-skip feature stacking for action recognition, in: IEEE CVPR, 2015.
[50] S.-I. Yu, L. Jiang, Z. Mao, X. Chang, X. Du, C. Gan, Z. Lan, Z. Xu, X. Li, Y . Cai,
et al., Informedia@ TRECVID 2014 MED and MER, in: NIST TRECVID Video
Retrieval Evaluation Workshop, 2014.
50
[51] K. Chatﬁeld, K. Simonyan, A. Vedaldi, A. Zisserman, Return of the devil in the
details: Delving deep into convolutional nets, in: BMVC, 2014.
[52] J. C. Niebles, C.-W. Chen, F.-F. Li, Modeling Temporal Structure of Decompos-
able Motion Segments for Activity Classiﬁcation, in: ECCV , 2010.
[53] M. Raptis, L. Sigal, Poselet Key-framing: A Model for Human Activity Recog-
nition, in: IEEE CVPR, 2013.
[54] K. Tang, L. Fei-Fei, D. Koller, Learning latent temporal structure for complex
event detection, in: IEEE CVPR, 2012.
[55] F. Perronnin, J. S ´anchez, T. Mensink, Improving the ﬁsher kernel for large-scale
image classiﬁcation, in: ECCV , 2010.
[56] D. Oneata, J. Verbeek, C. Schmid, Efﬁcient action localization with approxi-
mately normalized Fisher vectors, in: Proceedings of the IEEE Conference on
Computer Vision and Pattern Recognition, 2014.
Appendix A. List of 101 actions
The complete list of actions for UCF 101 and THUMOS is provided below. The
actions in bold face are used in the evaluation of the temporal detection task.
1. ApplyEyeMakeup
2. ApplyLipstick
3. Archery
4. BabyCrawling
5. BalanceBeam
6. BandMarching
7. BaseballPitch
8. Basketball
9. BasketballDunk
10. BenchPress
11. Biking
12. Billiards
13. BlowDryHair
14. BlowingCandles
15. BodyWeightSquats
16. Bowling
17. BoxingPunchingBag
18. BoxingSpeedBag
19. BreastStroke
20. BrushingTeeth
21. CleanAndJerk
22. CliffDiving
23. CricketBowling
24. CricketShot
25. CuttingInKitchen
26. Diving
27. Drumming
28. Fencing
29. FieldHockeyPenalty
30. FloorGymnastics
51
31. FrisbeeCatch
32. FrontCrawl
33. GolfSwing
34. Haircut
35. Hammering
36. HammerThrow
37. HandstandPushups
38. HandstandWalking
39. HeadMassage
40. HighJump
41. HorseRace
42. HorseRiding
43. HulaHoop
44. IceDancing
45. JavelinThrow
46. JugglingBalls
47. JumpingJack
48. JumpRope
49. Kayaking
50. Knitting
51. LongJump
52. Lunges
53. MilitaryParade
54. Mixing
55. MoppingFloor
56. Nunchucks
57. ParallelBars
58. PizzaTossing
59. PlayingCello
60. PlayingDaf
61. PlayingDhol
62. PlayingFlute
63. PlayingGuitar
64. PlayingPiano
65. PlayingSitar
66. PlayingTabla
67. PlayingViolin
68. PoleVault
69. PommelHorse
70. PullUps
71. Punch
72. PushUps
73. Rafting
74. RockClimbingIndoor
75. RopeClimbing
76. Rowing
77. SalsaSpin
78. ShavingBeard
79. Shotput
80. SkateBoarding
81. Skiing
82. Skijet
83. SkyDiving
84. SoccerJuggling
85. SoccerPenalty
86. StillRings
87. SumoWrestling
88. Surﬁng
89. Swing
90. TableTennisShot
91. TaiChi
92. TennisSwing
93. ThrowDiscus
94. TrampolineJumping
95. Typing
96. UnevenBars
97. VolleyballSpiking
98. WalkingWithDog
99. WallPushups
100. WritingOnBoard
101. YoYo
52
